- Feature Name: (use a unique and descriptive name of the form `my_awesome_feature`)
- Start Date: (put in today's date, `DD-MM-YYYY`)
- RFC PR: (leave this empty)

# Summary

Provide a one or two paragraph explanation of the proposed change.

# Motivation

Provide a detailed justification of why the change is needed.  This
should include examples to illustrate the problem or limitation with
the current version of Whiley.  Where possible, external links to
similar or related discussions should be included.

# Technical Details

This should provide a detailed discussion regarding the technical
aspects of the proposal.  This should clearly identify what exactly is
being changed (e.g. what the new syntax is, what the new feature does,
etc).  This should also detail what parts of the compiler need to be
changed in order for the change to be implemented.

# Terminology

In changing the language, it is important to develop a suitable
"vernacular" for talking about the new aspects of the language.  For
example, if a new piece of syntax is proposed, then a standard way of
referring to this should be proposed.  Likewise, if a new phase of the
compiler is introduced, then suitable terminology for discussing the
various aspects of this should be developed.

# Drawbacks and Limitations

This should identify any potential drawbacks or limitations of the
proposed change.  For example, if the proposed change would break
existing code, this should be clearly identified.  Likewise, if the
change could impact upon other proposed changes, this should be
identified.

# Unresolved Issues

List any currently unresolved aspects of the change proposal.  These
will need to be adequately resolved before the RFC is accepted.
Identifying these issues provides a way for the author(s) of the RFC
to leverage the community in finding appropriate solutions.
